# Laravel Backend Essentials

The first thing you need to know when starting with Laravel is: do I know enough PHP? More importantly, do I understand Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)? If not, it’s crucial to go back to the basics—they are essential.

If that’s not the case, I recommend looking into the following points:

- Classes and objects

- Inheritance

- Interfaces

Alright, if you’re familiar with these concepts, perfect—let’s get started!

## What is Laravel?

Some of you might already know Laravel, while others might not know it at all. So, if you're already familiar with what Laravel is, I suggest skipping to the next chapter.

### Definition

>Laravel is what we call a PHP framework. Simply put, it’s a giant toolbox that contains everything you need to build a modern website without having to reinvent the wheel every time.

Instead of manually coding your authentication system, database management, or routing, Laravel provides elegant and robust tools to do it in just a few lines of code. It’s often called the framework for "Web Artisans" because it prioritizes clean code and developer happiness.

It primarily uses the MVC (Model-View-Controller) architecture to cleanly separate your business logic from your display.

### What's next?

What we are going to do in this article is create a small **API**. Therefore, we don't need Views for now. In any case, learning Blade—Laravel's template engine—is not difficult and can be easily understood by checking the official Laravel documentation
