# Chapter 1: Installation

We need two additional tools. I’m assuming you already have a code editor; if not, I recommend VS Code, which is free and very popular among developers.

The first tool we need is Laravel, and the second is Postman. However, you can also use a VS Code plugin called Thunder Client.

## Testing our API

This tool (or Postman) will allow us to test our routes. Since we don't have views, we need a way to see what our routes are returning—we need to verify that everything is working as expected.

## Installing Laravel

The simplest and most common method is to use **Composer**, the PHP package manager. Once you have Composer installed on your machine, simply open your terminal and run the following command to create your first project:

```bash
composer create-project laravel/laravel my-api
```

This command will create a folder named my-api with a fresh Laravel installation, ready to go.

```bash
cd my-api
code .
```

## Launching your project

To put it simply, Laravel provides a suite of commands to run in the terminal through a tool called PHP Artisan.

Thanks to these commands, we can, for instance, launch our project, add migrations, controllers, or models. In short, as you’ve probably guessed: Artisan is how we communicate with our application to automate repetitive tasks.

```bash
php artisan serve
```

Now, I think you're ready! One last thing: make sure you have Postman or Thunder Client installed—it’s very important. I’ll see you in the next chapter for the rest: the structure of a Laravel project. Grab a cup of coffee, because we’re about to take off!
